## Fast Image Deconvolution with Incomplete Observations

### What is this?

This set of files allows one to reproduce the experiments discussed in [1].

   [1] M. Simoes, J. Bioucas-Dias, L. Almeida, and J. Chanussot, 
        "A Framework for Fast Image Deconvolution with
        Incomplete Observations," IEEE Trans. Image Process.,
        to be published.  
		
In image deconvolution problems, the diagonalization of the underlying operators by means of the FFT usually yields very large speedups. When there are incomplete observations (e.g., in the case of unknown boundaries), standard deconvolution techniques normally involve non-diagonalizable operators, resulting in rather slow methods, or, otherwise, use inexact convolution models, resulting in the occurrence of artifacts in the enhanced images. In this work, we propose a new deconvolution framework for images with incomplete observations that allows us to work with diagonalized convolution operators, and therefore is very fast. We iteratively alternate the estimation of the unknown pixels and of the deconvolved image, using, e.g., an FFT-based deconvolution method. We propose a specific implementation of this framework, based on the alternating direction method of multipliers (ADMM). The resulting algorithm can be seen as a partial ADMM, in which not all variables are dualized. We report experimental comparisons with other primal-dual methods in four different kinds of applications: deconvolution, deconvolution with inpainting, superresolution, and demosaicing, all with unknown boundaries.   
 
See the file LICENSE for copying conditions.

Kindly report any suggestions or corrections to miguel.simoes@lx.it.pt 


### Release date
June 2016


### Where can it be found?
https://github.com/alfaiate/DeconvolutionIncompleteObs


### How to use it?

There are three folders:

    'demos': MATLAB script files that generate the experiments detailed in [1];
    'data':  the different original images and the reference images generated by the AM method after 1e6 iterations (see [1]);
    'src':   the proposed method and the ones used for comparison purposes.

Run the scripts from the 'demos' folder to generate the following experiments:

    'run_simple_example.m': deconvolution of a blurred version of the 'cameraman' image, which was previously convolved with a 13*13 boxcar blur. The deconvolution is made using the Proposed-AD method, described in [1];
    'run_tables.m': experiments corresponding to Tables I-IV given in [1];
    'run_graph_deblurring.m': builds the 'running time' graph corresponding to the 'Deblurring' experiment given in [1];
    'run_graph_inpainting.m': builds the 'running time' graph corresponding to the 'Inpainting' experiment;
    'run_graph_sr.m': builds the graph corresponding to the 'Superresolution' experiment;
    'run_graph_demosaicing.m': builds the graph corresponding to the 'Demosaicing' experiment;
    'run_graphs_all.m': runs the last four scripts.
  
  
### System-specific Notes

This version of DeconvolutionIncompleteObs was tested using MATLAB R2015a on a Windows 10 machine.


### Licensing

Copyright (C) 2016 Miguel Simoes
 
This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, version 3 of the License.
 
This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the
GNU General Public License for more details.
 
You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.


### Contact Information:

    Miguel Simoes:      miguel.simoes@lx.it.pt 
    Jose Bioucas-Dias:  bioucas@lx.it.pt 
    Luis B. Almeida:    luis.almeida@lx.it.pt 
    Jocelyn Chanussot:  jocelyn.chanussot@gipsa-lab.grenoble-inp.fr

Miguel Simoes is with Instituto de Telecomunicacoes, Instituto Superior 
Tecnico, Universidade de Lisboa, Lisbon, Portugal and GIPSA-Lab, 
Universite de Grenoble, France.
José Bioucas-Dias and Luis B. Almeida are with Instituto de 
Telecomunicacoes, Instituto Superior Tecnico, Universidade de Lisboa, 
Lisbon, Portugal.
Jocelyn Chanussot is with GIPSA-Lab, Grenoble Institute of Technology, 
France and with the Faculty of Electrical and Computer Engineering, 
University of Iceland.

This work was partially supported by the Fundacao para a Ciencia e 
Tecnologia, Portuguese Ministry of Science and Higher Education, 
project PEst-OE/EEI/0008/2013, and 
grant SFRH/BD/87693/2012.
